No let's continue building out our new answer
component and add even handler for the form.
Here in the from tag let's add v-on submit dot prevent
So when the form submitted we prevent
the default action and then call create method
Let's jump to script.
Actually
let's see the URI for the create answer.
So here we can see that the URI needs a
question id let me copy the URI from here.
And here let's add props property and then add a question Id
then let's define methods property
and define the create method.
In this method we sent ajax request by saying axios dot post
then I'll add back tick forward slash
And paste the URI
And then let's change the question placeholder
to this question id. In the second argument
let's define request payload
in this case body
from this body
we have validated the form in the client side.
But just in case for some reason the validation's not working
then we already handled the validation in the server side.
So here let's show the validation
error message in the flash message
now when succeed
we need to unpick the data property from the ajax response
and then show the success message in the flash message.
We also need to reset the text area
because it has bound to body via v-model
All we need to do is set the body to be empty like so.
One last thing that we need to do after answer
successfully created is add it to answers
array so that we can see in our UI immediately.
Remember the answers array
Is in the parent component.
That's why here we can make use of the custom events.
So here we can say this emit
in the first argument let's define the event
name and I'm going to call it created
and then here we also need to send
along the new answer with the event
so here the ajax response need to contains message and answer
now let's open answers controller
go to store method.
Here the create method will return new answer
object so that we can assign it into variable
and then let's return json response.
The first is message
we can simply copy from here
and the second answer.
All right
now let's listen to created event in the parent component
and then add the newest answer to the answers array.
Let's switch to answers dot vue and here we can listen
to created event that emit by this component by saying
at created
and then here we will handle that
with add method because we'll need to add
the newest answer to the answers array
don't forget because this component also
need question id as you can see in here.
So here we need to specify the question id
property and pass in the ID of the question
to it. Note that when we define the property inside
component we write it in camel case but when we call
it outside the component we write it in kebab case like this.
OK let's jump to script
and go to methods property. Here let's add answer method
and provide an argument to capture the answer.
Here we simply push the new answer to this answers array.
And we also need to increment the number of count
OK let's save all changes
and give it another try.
I'll enter something here.
And then hit the submit button
here to my new answer added. But there there's something
wrong to the user info. Let me open the console.
And here I have error cannot read properly
url of undefined. It found in user info
and answer component.
OK this because the user object not included in the ajax response
So let's go back to answers controller.
So here we need to eagle load to user model.
Maybe we can do it like this.
Or we can do it more simpler by calling
load method and then pass in the
relationship name user in this case.
Let's try one more time.
enter new answer
and hit the submit button.
Everything seems good
except this votes count
Let's see the vue developer tool
go to events tab
I'll enter another answer.
Let me see the event payload
as you can see there's no
votes count here
I don't know exactly why but maybe this because we set
the votes count column to be nullable. But to fix this issue
I think it's easy.
Let's switch back over to our editor.
And let's open the vote dot vue
and then here we can simply add or operator and then zero.
So if the votes count undefined
then we set zero
to this count property.
Let's save this
and give it a try one more time.
Enter new answer
and then hit the submit button.
now the votes count 0 by default. And
I think everything now should be fine.
Great
we've successfully built out our new answer component
and now we have completely rewritten in the show
question page into vue js components
our next job is to rewrite this question part into vue js component.
Okay that's it
Let's commit all changes to our git repo and join me in the next lesson.